---
title: "My September visit to hometown"
date: '2023-02-11'
draft: false
slug: 'september-2023-home-visit'
author: 'Aswin'
tags: ['life']
---
This is a rundown of my experience of a visit I made to my hometown and family in September 2023.
There's a place where I write and keep some personal narratives, and I found this from there while 
searching for something else yesterday. I read it again and thought it was post-worthy.

---
My September visit to home—a week-long halt at Chalakudy—ended on the thirteenth and I 
have come back to the city with a reminder that working on myself, usually career, is always 
the best thing to do and brings the most happiness and satisfaction.

My overall presence and experience during this visit was not surprising: my absence of 
more than a month, even during Onam, wasn't felt in my mind or of my family. Perhaps it 
lingered in their thoughts, yet remained concealed from the surface; It was just another 
day for them. This time, on this visit, I had enough time to free many of my sensations 
and attend to most things around me. And that's why, working from the old "arena" (the 
meaning is the same, and is also recent Twitter term for workspace), the table where I've 
done many things before, left me wee nostalgic about how the times have changed and career 
progress that has been made – only in a bright way. Amma added to this sentiment by adding 
that – you only get to live through every single phase of life once, referring to my periods
of infancy, which she has always loved and is now lost in time (and echoes in eternity).

Quality time was also spent with Ammathe Muthassi (maternal grandmother), who'll be here for 
three more weeks until her leg heals. On the day before the first day of Onam 2023, grandma 
slipped and fell on the living room's carpet, ultimately becoming the pioneer in bringing 
Plaster of Paris home to the current household. This also meant that the wedding at Manthredam 
had to be missed — an event much looked-forward since months ago as it featured an opportunity 
to convene with the old cousin-friends from Varikkassery after a long while. On the weekend, we 
talked about the particulars of her wedding at Kottayam, how culture and time has progressed, 
and some usual old tales. At times, I felt like she looked older and more of her hair had grown 
gray – an effect possibly left from her forced arrest to the house. Ammathe Muthassan (maternal grandfather) 
also paid a visit with Appams he got from the temple on the particular day and the previous. The old man 
has gotten thinner. I pray for his best.

On Saturday, I re-watched Gladiator, mainly to listen to the dialogues from its first half before
Maximus is forced to become a slave. It's still an amazing film from all aspects, and whoever acted 
as Marcus Aurelius did his job really well. It was also nice to revisit and soak in some Roman medieval 
chivalry—scenes about sword fighting, brotherhood, and empires—into my modern psyche.

Sunday ended with a drive to Athirapilly Waterfalls with Achan (father). Athirapilly feels closer than 
I expected and the view was simply majestic and humbling. While driving, I need to remind myself to be 
aware of the line on the left, I realized. Although I expected to have some good ol’ father-son 
conversation at the time, that only came later, after I explained what happened in the last monthly 
team meeting from work and after he explained about change and quality management (his thing) for 
possibly the gazillionth time in my life.

In the intricate tapestry of time and memory, I find this feature the most interesting and peculiar – they 
don't appear linearly. The recesses of my mental faculties hold a vague recollection of a flurry of 
events, like a computer overloaded with randomly allocated read-only memory. It's pretty interesting that 
great people have many things going in their lives, and still manage to do many great things.

Anyway, glad to be back in the city. Cities and dynamic economies surely are interesting, and we have to 
do what keeps us late in the night.

What we do now echoes in eternity.
